You may have already been exposed to the work
of Freddy Silva or Art Bell's show,
or at many other media outlets.
Freddy Silva is considered one of the top researchers
in the arena of crop circle phenomena.
In his book, Secrets in the Fields,
Freddy pulls the pieces of the picture together
regarding what these images mean to mankind
in a way that nobody else has done.
He also tells of the darker history of crop circles,
such as disinformation campaigns
by the governments of the world.
Where did the fascination with crop circles
begin in your life, and how did that come
into form into a best selling book
and also into doing these kinds of conferences,
and basically, ticking a lot of people off these days?
(both laugh)
Well, I was actually a million miles away.
I was living in Chicago at the time.
I was actually in advertising.
I was an art director and a writer,
which, for many people, would put me
so far away from crop circles as possible.
Except when you think about it, it really isn't
because I used to take 40 pages of written information,
I used to condense that into a headline or a symbol
and I used to sell that to a skeptical public.
And now I take a symbol and I extract
40 pages of information, still have to sell it
to a skeptical public.
So nothing's really changed, I just don't get paid as much.
I was watching television with the sound turned off.
I was ironing a shirt.
And I just saw this image come on the screen,
and I just knew exactly what it was when I saw it.
But I couldn't explain it.
It was a sort of subconscious connection
that I just made.
This was an image that somehow I just recognized
and I knew exactly what was behind it
and what it was here to do.
And so, for the next nine years, I was slowly
watching my career go downhill
and watched my research go up at the same time.
Amazing how that happens.
It is, isn't it?
You watch your friends leave, your wife leave,
and your house, you know.
But the fringe benefits are fantastic.
(laughs) Okay, so now you understand
what they are.
First of all, this is a phenomena that's been around
for a really long time.
And it's been actually documented since,
I wrote a little note here, 1678.
Is that correct?
Yes.
So if they've been documenting them
for a long time, and they've gone through various phases,
let's talk about what's happened in recent years,
say, the 1990s through the 2000s, in the subject.
Lots of controversy around it.
And I wanna talk about some of that.
But first of all, tell us exactly what they are.
Who are the circle makers, and what are the circles?
(laughs) Well, the crop circles,
from a scientific point of view, they are areas
which are expressions of energy,
and it's living energy.
It can be documented,
it can be formulated, it can also be measured.
We've had tons of proof of this for the best part
of a decade now, so that's a mystery in itself.
And what it is, it's a form of electromagnetic
and sonic energy, which has a component of magnetism
and antigravitational aspects.
And what happens is, where this energy
actually hits a solid area, let's say, for example,
a wheat field, the expression of that energy,
the resonance, will actually create a geometric shape,
just as what happens when you send a sound frequency
through a liquid, and you capture that sound frequency
in a photograph, that's exactly what you get.
Or sound.
Or sound, exactly.
The old cymatic images.
So that's where the connection really was drawn from that.
So it's a living energy field which interacts with the Earth
on a physical level, and it expresses itself
geometrically in harmonically pleasing patterns.
Now, there is a consciousness behind this,
a conscious source behind it.
And we've known this for a while through various ways.
One, because people have tried to interact with it,
and it sends back messages which are answers
to the questions that you pose.
We've tried to predict where they're going to be,
and we've also been very successful
in then locating exactly where the pattern's gonna be
and what it's also going to look like.
So it's not just the fact that we're predicting it.
It's also reading our imagination,
it's reading our subconscious.
And it's feeding back information, in a wheat field,
that shows, yes, you can interact with us
to a certain degree, because, of course,
we are electromagnetic beings to begin with.
So, for us to send out thoughts,
if there's a conscious source out there,
it picks up our thoughts and it sends back
some kind of answer.
As to who it is, now that is a much more deeper question,
and the person
that originally connected with the original
circle making force, because there are
many, many forces in the universe
which are conscious, just like here on Earth,
we have, you know, white people, brown people,
black people, yellow people.
Well, the universe also has all those people, as well.
So it's not just one conscious source,
although the single group consciousness that's behind it
has been around for a very long time,
dictating the very core of the phenomenon.
And they actually exist in our history.
In the Egyptian culture, they were called
the Shining Ones, and they were the physical manifestation
of very, very tall beings, with long heads,
of which Akhenaten, the pharaoh,
was one of the last of their genetic kind.
You still find that in Britain, in Giant's Graves.
And they are literally marked "The Giant's Graves"
on the actual maps.
So they are real, they do incarnate from time to time.
And they needed bigger bodies in order to house
that extra energy that they bring with them.
So the group that's had the journey,
they call themselves the Watchers,
because they say, and I quote, "We can only watch.
"We cannot directly intervene unless we're asked to."
So what's happened is, at some point in our history,
we, as a group consciousness, as a race,
asked for help and our prayers were answered
by this group consciousness,
which some people would call angels, or god,
if you're into a religious theme.
And they said, "Well, these people need help.
"We can't actually help them because that would
"defeat the purpose of being here on the planet"--
And the whole free will expression.
Exactly. We're the ones we've been waiting for.
Our lesson, we're the ones we're waiting for
is our lesson.
Exactly.
So they said, "Well, we'll send helpful information
"which is spiritual, technical, and healing,
"in the form of geometric shapes,
"which they're gonna scratch their heads
"for the next 20 years figuring out
"what the hell this is all about.
"And that's their problem.
"We're just gonna nudge them in a certain direction."
And so, of course, today, we know that there's technology
encoded in the crop circles, we know
that there's healing involved in the crop circles,
and certainly the wonder that gets you to the fields
is, well, it's all around the world, in 29 countries now.
Oh, boy, you've opened up
so many areas to go in.
Well, he likes it.
(both laugh)
See how attractive you are to the natural forces?
Okay, so we have these messages coming through
from beings in another dimension, so to speak,
that have also a long history here in the physical realms.
We are in a time where we have a great need
for some clear guidance.
Can you begin, now, taking some of those themes
in their purest sense, some of the pure images
that have been laid in recent times,
and maybe tie some of those things back together,
some of the more famous and profound ones,
in your mind, before we get into the phenomena
of fake versus real and all that?
Yeah, I mean, it's a curious language, the crop circles,
because they are a language that,
ironically, is unspoken.
It's a subconscious language because it's based
on the geometry of life.
And sometimes geometry is an expression
of its unconsciousness.
It is what it says and what it means.
So to rationalize it is actually quite difficult.
However, there are those shapes
which are very cross-cultural, which have been here
for 1,000s of years, scratched sometimes on petroglyphs.
So some of the indigenous cultures were actually
helping us decipher the early parts of the phenomenon.
For example, the one that's on the cover of my book,
which is a huge tetrahedron structure,
which a lot of people actually gravitate towards,
the reason why they gravitate towards it is because
it actually explains how the universe is created.
It literally is the threefold nature of lights,
the seven structures of sound, magnetism,
how these three things hold together
the inside creative matrix of the universe.
Even science understands that, you know,
anything that bonds the atomic world together
is made of tetrahedrons.
So no wonder this shape just resonated with people so much.
And that's a common theme throughout
Egyptology, too.
Absolutely.
And the glyphs.
The Merkaba, tetrahedral in structure.
So they're speaking in tongues which are very familiar.
Yet, to try and rationalize it is a different matter.
There are shapes which appear in the same fields
over the course of nine years, which, let's, say,
in 1919, over in Barnes, there was this wonderful,
sort of long, 600-foot pictogram,
series of circles with rings and connecting straight lines.
What's the name of that?
There wasn't any name that was given--
They usually name it by the date
To that particular one.
And the area, right?
Usually whoever gives it first names it.
Which is actually a bit of a problem,
because people latch onto that and they narrow it.
But there was this long, sort of, pattern
which actually got people all around the world
to come to Britain for the first time.
I mean, 1,000s of people descended
in that tiny little hamlet in Wiltshire.
And then, six years later, we had a DNA pattern
in the same field, which seemed oddly familiar
and resonant with the original image in that field.
And then three years after that,
there was actually a coiled serpent.
Now, you put those three side by side,
and it gives you a story of how DNA and life work together,
and how it works with the Kundalini,
how it works with the Kundalini of the Earth, as well.
So there are multilayers of information
encoded in the symbols, which eventually,
if you give it enough time, it gives you a story.
Of course, we're very impatient to try
and figure out what it is.
We want it on the news tomorrow.
And the trick that the circle makers used to say was,
you gotta give it time, you gotta let this information
imprint itself on the Earth, into the subconscious,
and then eventually, the tune will be recognized.
You just gotta be patient.
Things happen glacially here on Earth.
They're not quick, you know.
Ice takes a long time to melt.
Right, time is not short.
Time is long.
Exactly.
On an intuitive level,
how do you interface with this information?
Oh, well, I have to come at this
from a point of view of my own experience,
because, I mean, I was raised a Catholic,
whether I liked it or not, and I didn't.
And then I became an atheist, because I couldn't understand
how a "loving God" could do so many horrible things
around the world.
I walked into the crop circle phenomenon
very much as an atheist, but also with someone who really
understood ancient systems of knowledge and wisdom.
And I knew that there's something more to the universe
than we're being told.
The more I worked with the crop circles,
the more I began to recognize that there was an energy form
that was intangible, you could feel it.
And after a while, just like driving a car,
it becomes second nature.
You begin to see energy lines, you begin to see shifts
in perception, missing time,
things out of the corner of your eye.
And after a while, I began to interact with these people,
as I call them, because for me, the people
who create the crop circles, or the beings that create
the crop circles, are very physical to me.
They're very real.
And I did have a very special experience
where one day, out of frustration, I'd go
into one of these designs in the middle of the night,
and I'd ask, "I'd like to know what the connection is
"with sound, how is sound associated with all of this?"
To cut a very long story short,
I started getting this huge white light over me,
in the middle of a field at midnight.
It's the kind of light that you get in the middle
of the morning when you been in bed too long.
The light's coming from the shutters
and it's batting your eyelids.
You can't quite keep them closed.
And it was very, very bright and I said,
"I really don't believe in UFOs or abductions.
"I'm not enjoying this moment at all."
And I was getting very, very nervous.
Ready for the probe?
I was sort of going, "I'm not gonna open my eyes.
"I don't know what's out there,
"but I'm not gonna open my eyes."
And then what happened was, it's as if someone
just hit me over the back of the head
with a baseball bat.
It didn't hurt.
It was like Doctor Spock, or Mr. Spock, pinching a nerve.
And I just lost all that trepidation.
And the next moment, I was sort of, actually,
not feeling the wheat under me at all.
I was actually floating off the ground, watching my arms
float around me, I was going, "That's interesting.
"My arm's over here.
"There's my other arm.
"What am I doing here?"
And I felt surrounded by a lot of very, very tall beings
and this sense of unconditional love.
45 minutes later, because the tape that I was playing,
I was playing a little bit of music in the field,
the tape ended, the click switched off the tape recorder,
and I just hit the ground with a bang.
I went back home and I thought, "That was very weird."
I mean, how do you explain all this?
Well, I was in this bed and breakfast with a good friend
of mine who happens to be an accountant
and very good channeler, as well,
which is good use of left brain and right brain.
She said to me, "Well, what happened last night?"
And I said, "Well, I'm not sure if I can really explain.
"I mean, I'm not sure if I dreamed all of this."
She said, "Actually, I'll tell you, they're telling me now
"that they took you out of the body
"and they got you into the other level of reality
"to get you into a position of being receptive
"to their information because you wanted to know
"about how sound and light create the crop circles."
And I said,
because I hadn't said anything to her.
She said, "There was one in front of you
"that was doing the guiding, there was three
"on either side, very tall beings, very slender."
I said, "Yes."
"And they're programming information for the book
"you're gonna write," and I said, "What book?"
"Don't worry, it'll all be made manifest."
And, of course, within a year,
I'm in my attic and a week later I got five chapters down
on a piece of paper.
And I still, to this day, I have no idea
where half that stuff came from.
So that was my connection with this.
It was very real, very real.
But you try telling that to most people, and...
Well, most of the people watching this
will understand.
Exactly.
But now I have a great respect for people
who've had abductions.
Not that this was an abduction by any means.
But people who've had out of body experiences,
I really do associate with lots of the pain
that they go through and the ostracism that they get
from people who haven't had that experience.
And believe me, when you've had that,
you believe in God, everything.
I mean, the sense of unconditional love that you receive
is so beautiful that, actually, you don't wanna
come back at all.
There's no pain, there's nothing.
It's just this pure, wonderful connection.
And then, after that, you feel very guided.
You feel very supported, as if
no matter where you're going or what you're doing,
doors are open for you.
And then you just let it flow.
So what doors opened from that moment forward?
Well, here I am at this conference,
speaking with some of the greatest minds in the world.
Unbelievable.
If you'd told me 10 years
ago that I'd be doing this, I'd have said, "Nah,
"you know, these are my heroes."
And now here I am, speaking with my heroes
and giving my experience.
And become other people's hero.
I guess.
The time needs heroes.
So this is a good thing.
Yes. Just don't follow them.
Right, exactly.
This is always my advice.
I always tell people that, you know,
one day I might wake up and discover
my compass has been pointing south.
Where are you gonna be?
Don't follow anybody.
Take bits from people.
Bring in what makes sense for you.
But don't follow them, follow yourself.
Have your own experience.
Because that's what it's about.
It's about having an experience.
And everybody's experience is right.
You know, there's no wrong experience.
There's just an experience.
Well, now when you...
We just have a 10-year gap there,
from that night until here we are at the conference.
A lot's happened in between,
and a lot's happened in this field.
Let's talk about some of the more
controversial elements of what's happened
with crop circles, where they were,
say, in the mid-90s, to what's happened
in the last few years in particular,
certainly since 2001, 2002.
You make one comment that there hasn't really been
anything happening since 2003, which, of course,
a lot of people that buy their crop circle calendars
would not want to hear.
Unless they buy my crop circle calendar.
Unless they buy yours.
(both laugh)
In which case, you're gonna get the real stuff.
Yes, it's very interesting because it,
the crop circle phenomenon, historically,
also mimics, in a certain way, human development
and how we take certain sacred aspects,
and you watch it degrading over time
into this sort of
commercialized religion
which has no resemblance to its original form.
And I'm watching this now, because,
as you pointed right out, in the beginning
of the modern phase of the phenomenon,
which is from the early 80s to the 90s, I mean,
it was nothing by genuine crop circles.
You'd fine one or two here and there
where a farmer had tried to experiement with chains
and ropes to see, "Well, we can't recreate that."
Even the editor of the 14 Times,
you know very famous magazine in Britain,
even he said that people can't do this.
We've tried it. It won't.
Now, of course, they changed their tune.
You know, they've been infiltrated by other people.
And I wanna get to that.
Exactly.
By 1990, we have this huge sudden rise,
exponential rise in complexity, and also
in scientific evidence, by which time, of course,
you got a religious following coming on the back of it.
So of course, the government couldn't handle that.
Actually, governments couldn't handle that,
because they can't control people.
They didn't know what it was.
And to have people believe in something that's supposedly
extraterrestrial, which in a way it is, is bad.
You can't have that.
People need to be controlled, so the government says.
So they invented something called Doug and Dave,
which is something that eventually was traced back
to the English Ministry of Defense,
from sources from the inside who revealed that.
After that, in the mid-90s, you start getting the phenomenon
going down, and the allowance of hoax seemed to come in.
By 1994, you had the rise of the real phenomenon
coming back, 96, 97,
98 year, which is a peak.
And then it drops off again.
It sort of does a sine wave all the way through history.
It's just like a sound wave.
There are peaks and troughs.
So it rises the energy and imprints energy into the land,
and then it just drops off,
it allows people to do their thing.
2000, 2001, 2002,
by 2002 and 3, you're getting more complex designs
but fewer genuine ones, as well.
So they're almost concentrating the energy
that's going into the land in fewer designs.
And then, suddenly, from my experience,
2003 was definitely the last major genuine event in England.
And from that on, it's just been a sudden cutoff.
Simple circles here and there, as if they're just
adjusting the energy field of the Earth,
but more rise in the phenomenon in America.
The simple circle in America?
Especially the simple circles in America.
And Canada, in Saskatchewan, in the prairies,
in Japan, in 29 countries around the world,
including South Africa.
So they're spreading now around the world.
And there's also, even today, in 2007,
we have, for example, right now as we speak,
18 crop circles in Italy, all of which were manmade.
And looking at their designs, I can tell,
they're the same people that were responsible
for making some of the ones
between 2001 and 2006 in England, as well.
Now we begin to see who the perpetrators are,
and where they come from.
But having said that, despite the fact
that there is a huge influx now of this bandwagoning,
the fact that a false religion
is almost being based on this,
despite the fact that, within this phenomenon,
there is a real sense of faith.
You just have to go back in time to look at the real stuff,
look at the real information.
It does help us to actually look at people
and how they create these false gods
and how suddenly something that's so pure
is denatured over time.
So it's almost, the phenomenon, by holding back,
is allowing us to view ourselves as people, as a culture,
and how we behave around ourselves
and how we take very sacred concepts and turn them
into something very unspiritual--
Cheap and commercial.
Cheap and commercial, exactly.
It's actually showing us up for who we are.
I think that in itself is also part
of the whole purpose of the phenomenon
because they're trying to get us to see who we are.
They're not trying to fix anything, they're trying
to help us to be the high expression of who we can be
in this lifetime, to take responsibility
for what we're doing.
It sounds corny, but that's what they're here to do,
because we need that right now.
Yes, we do.
Let's talk about, perhaps, another "they."
Is there another "they" that would perhaps like
to have this issue clouded so that--
Absolutely. Why not?
Can you please talk about that?
I mean, my experience has been mostly positive
in the crop circles.
But there's been those days where,
and again, the more you come into contact
with these energies, the more you begin to see and perceive.
I can now see magnetic lines running through the landscape
because my energy field is so energized.
And again, if you told me I could have done this
10 years ago, I'd have said, "No, forget it.
"It's not possible."
Now I can do it, I can dowse.
I can hear things.
Sometimes I go into some of these designs,
and there's a certain agenda going on
in some of these designs.
And when I look at them, I kind of hold back.
I think, "There's something here that is not right for me.
"I'm gonna back away from this."
And when I tune into it, I do get a sense
that there are other entities involved,
in trying to bring their agenda.
And that's when I think where the human
circle makers come into it, because they're working
from a point of view of fear and of hatred.
So, of course, when you work with that energy,
you're gonna draw that energy
to that local landscape, as well.
So, all things being equal, I'll probably say that,
yes, there are other entities out there
who are generating or putting ideas into people's heads
because they have their own agenda, too.
They're working with the dark.
The real crop circles are working with light.
So you have this dichotomy going, as well,
just like we have here on Earth.
So, all things being equal, why not?
I'm sure they're also being motivated by other feelings.
I think the government's actually had their hand
in making several of them.
We know they have paid people off to make them
physically, as well, to throw us off the scent,
to invalidate the scientific evidence.
The whole gamut of human intercourse
is happening right here, within this phenomenon.
And slowly, we'll be able to step away from it
and actually recognize it for what it is.
And once you recognize that, I think the phenomenon
begins to come back again to take us
to the next level of the classroom,
which is already quite complex as it is.
It is complex.
And it's even more complex when...
I was reading one paper by you.
You're talking about an event
where a bit of antigravity technology
was imprinted in one of them, by man.
However, that same technology had been
foretold of two decades prior,
so that humans are actually utilized at times.
Can you talk about that part of the phenomenon?
That was a very interesting thing, because it also,
in a way, can cloud the issue,
where you say, well, some people had been told
to go make crop circles by the forces that be,
the management.
And when you hear that, you think,
"That really makes the issue very complicated."
Then I thought, "Yes, it does.
"But then again, when you look at how the people"...
And I'm talking about very few groups here in England
who, they said, "Sometimes we'll be in the pub,
"we make this design on the graph paper,
"we got the rope the right length and everything,"
and we know who they are, because a lot of them
have been caught.
But what amazed me was when they said that,
on certain evenings, they got to the fields,
total pitch black, they can't see a finger in front of them,
and they said, "We suddenly felt compelled
"to make a completely different design right on the spot."
Now, when you look at what they've actually created,
without a blueprint, without measurements,
you can begin to realize that, yes, there is a guidance
going on because there's no way that you can go out
in the middle of a field in pitch black darkness
and create a coherent pattern without foreplanning.
It's just not possible.
And it's actually frightened these people to a huge degree
that they've got involved in the research.
Because then they realized that, because they were open
to suggestion, that they were actually imprinted
with the information to put it down.
So one day I went to a channeling session by this woman
who had originally vetted the information
from the original circle makers, and who was
very much trusted by the local police force, as well,
I should point out.
I went back for some of the transcripts
and I asked again during one of the sessions,
"What is the connection between the circle making force
"and human circle makers?"
And the reply was that, because the circle making
force has to rely on natural principles
with which to create the shapes, in other words,
sound, light and magnetism,
sometimes the conditions aren't right
for them to lay down the information.
Yet the information has to be given out.
So they basically send the information out to people
who are ready and willing to go out and misbehave
in a field in the middle of the night.
They put ideas into their heads.
And I said, "Why do you do that?"
And they said, "Well, it's a shortcut, isn't it?"
(both laugh)
So they've got a sense of humor
about the whole thing, as well.
And that's why they do it.
The information has to go out there.
One case particular recently involves one of the original
so-called Mayan crop circle designs, which,
I've got a lot of information except the one piece
of information that you won't find
except on my website is that the people who made it
were caught not once, not twice, but three times.
And I actually got picture of the crop circle in process
each night.
I saw that.
So definitely manmade.
I even know there's an Italian TV crew
that was involved in its making.
But you don't get to hear about that.
The interesting concept about that Mayan crop cliff,
and it's not Mayan at all, is that somewhere,
on another continent, and this is information
which I'm not privy to give out in detail,
on another continent, there is a group of scientists
who are working quietly behind the scenes
on an antigravitational machine.
And when they saw the picture of that crop circle,
it freaked them because that is the blueprint,
almost to the actual shape,
of the actual machine they're building.
And they're wondering, "Who is tapping into us?
"Or is someone feeding someone information,
"and we're all feeding off this information?"
And, of course, all of that was predicted 25 years ago
by this psychic who said within these designs,
there will be technological imprints
of the ability to actually defy gravity.
So there you are, it's all coming true again.
And whether they're imprinting the information
and it's going out along magnetic lines
and we, as magnetic beings, are picking up
that information, matter of conjecture.
But perhaps they're putting ideas into our heads, as well.
That's an amazing story.
I love that.
Even though it does, as you say, potentially
cloud the issue even a little more for some people.
But nonetheless, it's about as worthwhile to know
that we're being utilized in that way, as well.
Can you talk about the flow of what you've seen,
in terms of the information that has been flowing
through to us over time up to this point in time?
Are you seeing messages, specific messages, emerging?
The actual meanings, although they're very, very
personal to people, and people extract
out of the symbols exactly what they need,
because the symbols speak directly
to people's subconscious, it gives them the information
that they're requiring at that time,
there is within that an overall overarching meaning,
which is about opening people to their biggest potential.
And it goes back to our collective.
That's the biggest meaning of all, the fact
that we're here for a purpose,
that whatever we're doing down here
is having repercussions elsewhere throughout the universe,
and that's a scientific process, where all our vibrations,
sending out information as radio waves,
is sending them out all across the universe.
And it's interacting with the other levels of reality.
And whatever we're doing down here,
they've already concerned that there
because they're getting not so positive messages.
And, of course, they're sending them back, saying,
"Well, look, you gotta basically take responsibility
"for your actions, because what you do down here
"on Earth is gonna also influence us."
And that ultimately is what the crop circles
are telling everybody.
It's the same story for every person.
No matter how personal the message is,
the overarching story is always
about personal responsibility, what we're doing
to ourselves, to each other, and also the planet itself.
It's an old cultural perspective
about the change of the worlds.
We're going from the end of this world
of total selfishness, of greed, of old materialism,
overassociation with material forces,
and we're going out into the fifth world of connectivity,
working with the female and the male in harmony.
This is where we're trying to get to.
So that's overall what the message is all about.
Any specifics that you've seen
embedded in there that can have these multimeanings,
just out of curiosity?
Hm.
Off the top of my head, no.
(both laugh)
I probably switched my memory bank.
Well, that's okay, because the overview
is just beautiful, anyway.
Where are you going with all of this,
with everything that you're seeing?
And people, as you say, many have adopted this
as a religion, and they're hurt.
They're angry because they're finding
that not everything is as it seems.
There's a lot of money being made by certain farmers
in England, to be able to have the...
And the commercialism, to be able to have
visitors come to their land for a fee
to see these crop circles.
Yeah, and some of the farmers knowing full well
that when they write, "Come and see a genuine crop circle,"
they've actually been manmade and they were paid for it.
And that really gets to me.
But at the same time, it does allow people
to be on the land and experience the land.
Because the, especially in Britain,
since we're talking about this phenomenon,
which is very much, 80%, happening in Britain.
The land is very powerful there.
It's very old.
We have sacred sites going back 8,000, 10,000 years.
So, to be on the land, regardless of the origin
of whatever made the crop circle, is very important,
because people are soaking up the energy.
The problem comes when you start associating yourself
too much with the origin of what is and what isn't.
And I've taken tours of people over there,
and they'll say, "Well, do you think it's manmade?"
And I said, "Well, you know what?
"I know where it comes from."
And if it's usually manmade, and I know
very well it is, I'll say, 'Well, you know what?
"A cathedral's manmade, as well.
"And a cathedral and a crop circle, and in fact,
"an old stone circle, are all built
"on exactly the same principles.
"You got magnetism, you've got the water veins
"under the ground, you've got the sacred geometry
"embedded here, and you've got the sound properties
"with these designs.
"So treat it like a cathedral.
"Forget about the fact that it's a crop circle
"and where it comes from.
"Treat it like a cathedral.
"Now, what are you gonna put into it?
"What kind of intent are you gonna put into it?
"Do you wanna put something positive into it?
"Because if you do, it's gonna amplify
"whatever you take in there."
And if you bring in positive intent for the group of people
on the land, which is already very sacred,
that intent is gonna ripple around there,
the entire landscape, and other people
will be drawn to that land, and they, too,
will take that back to their homes, wherever they live.
So that's where I come from.
I was very angry about the commercialization
of the phenomenon.
It's a double-edged sword, where you either
promote the phenomenon.
And, I mean, I do it as well on my website.
I have to show people what's going on.
But I draw a line now as to showing crop circles
which are manmade.
Because I know that's why they're getting,
they're doing what they're doing
because they get that joy of being on the web
and seeing their work discussed on the web.
It gives them permission to go out
and do it again next year.
So I've stopped doing that.
But I think as long as people stop believing
in something which is not grounded,
at least on some subjective fact,
that's where the problems start,
and that's where our religious beliefs come from.
And those religious beliefs really come
from someone's version of the truth.
And when that version of the truth begins to be unwound
by facts which come to the surface,
you gotta be prepared to say, "Well, you know what?
"I was right, up to the point where I knew so much.
"And new information has come in, and it now
"allows me to believe something else."
If you can accept that, then you're fine,
because your ego doesn't get involved in it.
It's when you attach yourself to a concept of,
that's what I held to be my version of reality,
and now, because someone is saying otherwise,
I'm going to beat them up for it.
And boy, do I get beaten up for it,
Colin Andrew's got beaten up for it.
So many people got beaten up for it.
But they were absolutely right.
They were absolutely correct.
They were just allowing the information to flow,
and they would change their concept of reality
based on incoming information.
And they're prepared to say, "You know what?
"I was wrong about this, that and the other."
And there's nothing wrong with that.
I was at that talk when he fist did that,
when Colin Andrews first did that, a few years ago,
and he was everything but booed.
And it's sad.
It was very sad.
I didn't know he was conducting
that experiment at the time.
And I can say that I, at the time he was doing it,
which is from 1999 to 2001, and he said
80% of the crop circles I have been into,
which is maybe a third of all of them,
so that by itself is just,
his figure of 80/20 being fake,
is actually only accurate according to how many
he'd actually experienced, not the whole phenomenon.
At the same time, I was actually looking
for an-dre-tic patterns for dowsing
and certain energies.
I was also seeing exactly the same correlation.
And I didn't know that he was doing those experiments.
So we actually validated each other's experiments.
And I said, yes, I was starting to see a lot of stuff
that didn't make any sense.
I was getting to see some very complex designs,
but, you know, there's nothing in them.
They were just, I could see the tracing lines
underneath them, I knew these were manmade.
But I couldn't understand why there were
so many of them.
But within that, there's the 20% which are genuine.
Now, why didn't anybody latch on to that?
Nobody latched on that day.
I mean, people were standing up and actually yelling.
I know. Only, it is one that you can't explain.
And that's the phenomenon.
That's incredible news.
That was my position that day, too.
I agree with you.
And it comes back to religion.
The crop circles have now gone away,
to give us time to look at ourselves in the mirror
and say, "Well, we're creating the very thing
"which has held us back for over 2,000 years."
They're built of a religion.
Not a faith, a religion.
And that's someone's idea of the truth,
not how the truth really is.
Because faith is what your truth really is,
it's what it's about.
And that's why I believe eventually all this will
get back to, about personal truth.
What is my experience, what does this do for me?
That's not what anybody else thinks.
Just, what does it mean for you, and how can you
apply it in a positive sense?
And I think, as long as you flow with that,
then the crop circles take on a whole new meaning.
You know, don't worry about suddenly realizing
that one day you were wrong.
I've got it wrong several times, you know.
I have to go back and apologize to people
and to call them up and say, "Look, I was a really
"arrogant bastard, and you were actually right
"10 years ago, when you mentioned
"blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and now I found out
"through my experience that you were actually right.
"I'm really sorry about that."
And you move on.
You've actually learned something from that.
And it's all about bringing down the ego again.
It's about making you a better person.
And as long as you are improving all the time,
your thoughts are going out in a more positive way
across the universe, everybody benefits.
And it makes you a bigger person.
And, by the way, you're a very tall person.
You were talking about those beings in the beginning,
and being surrounded with these--
That's another lecture.
I know something about that.
Oh, when do we get to revisit this one?
I'm Portuguese by birth.
I should be about four foot tall.
Yeah, well, you're what, 6'4" or 5"?
6'5".
Yeah.
I know things about my past,
but it's for another time.
Can we visit that at another time?
Yeah.
Until then, thank you so much
for giving us some of your time.
For the full story of Freddy's work,
you can purchase a copy of his books and DVDs
and other products by clicking on the link
below this viewing window.
As we said in the interview, we'll catch up
with Freddy again, to take a look at the story
behind the Watchers of planet Earth.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(gentle music)